Migration guide (#113)
kyma-project/test-infra: docs/prow/migration-guide.MD

- **ci-release** - is executed for a PR to the release branch.

Following environment variables are available when executing Makefile:
- **DOCKER_TAG** - Docker tag.
- **DOCKER_PUSH_REPOSITORY** - Docker repository where image is be pushed.
- **DOCKER_PUSH_DIRECTORY** directory in Docker repository where image is pushed.

Example Makefile for `ui-api-layer` component:
```Makefile
IMG_NAME = ui-api-layer
IMG = $(DOCKER_PUSH_REPOSITORY)$(DOCKER_PUSH_DIRECTORY)/$(IMG_NAME)
TAG = $(DOCKER_TAG)

ci-pr: resolve build-and-test build-image push-image
ci-master: resolve build-and-test build-image push-image
ci-release: resolve build-and-test build-image push-image

resolve:
	dep ensure -v -vendor-only
build-and-test:
	./before-commit.sh ci
build-image:
	docker build -t $(IMG_NAME) .
push-image:
	docker tag $(IMG_NAME) $(IMG):$(TAG)
	docker push $(IMG):$(TAG) 
```

### Create presubmits and postsbumit Prow jobs.
Presubmit job runs on a Pull Request (PR). Postsubmit job runs on merging to a branch.
All jobs needs to be stored in `prow/jobs` directory. 
Structure of this directory is following:
```
jobs
|-- <repository1>
|---- components
|------ <component1>

> |-------- <component1.yaml>

Author: we decided to remove "jobs" from file name

| preset-sa-gke-kyma-integration| Injects credentials for Service Account for running integration tests on GKE cluster
| preset-sa-gcr-push            | Injects credentials for pushing images to Google Cloud Registry
| preset-dind-enabled           | Allows to run docker in your docker container
| preset-docker-push-repository | Provide environment variable with address of Docker repository
| preset-build-pr               | Provide environment variable with directory in Docker repository to store images and variable **BUILD_TYPE** set to **pr** 
| preset-build-master           | As above, but **BUILD_TYPE** is set to **master**
| preset-build-release          | As above, but **BUILD_TYPE** is set to **release**.

>**NOTE:** Yaml file needs to have unique name in the whole `jobs` structure.

#### Check your configuration locally
Use `development/check.sh` script.
 

#### Review and merge your PR. 
After merging, job configuration is automatically applied on a Prow production cluster 
and comment is added to the PR:
![msg](./assets/msg-updated-config.png)

There are following options to trigger your job:
- create a new PR

> - request executing all tests for already created PR by adding comment: `/test all`

Reviewer: How to run a separate test?

- Prow jobs should not send events to GitHub (`skip_report` set to `true`).

## Steps

### Create presubmit job
The presubmit job runs on a Pull Request (PR). All jobs need to be stored in `test-infra` repository, in `prow/jobs` directory.
Structure of this directory is following:
```
jobs
|-- <repository1>
|---- components
|------ <component1>
|-------- <component1.yaml>
|------ <component2>

```

For example, if you define jobs for `binding-usage-controller` component from `kyma` repository,
you create one file called: `jobs/kyma/components/binding-usage-controller/binding-usage-controller.yaml`
>**NOTE:** YAML file needs to have a unique name in the whole `jobs` structure.

In your job, you should call a `pipeline.sh` script from provided buildpack image. This script executes makefile's rule defined for your component.
Script `pipeline.sh` requires the environment variable `SORUCES_DIR` which is a path to a directory where a `Makefile` for your component is defined. 

The content of the job file should be the following:
```yaml
presubmits: # runs on PRs
  kyma-project/kyma:
    - name: prow/kyma/components/binding-usage-controller

>       run_if_changed: "components/binding-usage-controller/"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      run_if_changed: "^components/binding-usage-controller/"
```

      context: prow/kyma/components/binding-usage-controller
      branch: master
      skip_report: true
      decorate: true
      path_alias: github.com/kyma-project/kyma
      extra_refs:
        - org: kyma-project
          repo: test-infra
          base_ref: master
          path_alias: github.com/kyma-project/test-infra
      labels:
        preset-dind-enabled: "true"
        preset-sa-gcr-push: "true"
        preset-docker-push-repository: "true"
        preset-build-pr: "true"
      spec:
        containers:

>           - image: eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/prow/buildpack-golang:0.0.1

Reviewer 2: Use new image

| preset-build-master           | As above, but **BUILD_TYPE** is set to **master**
| preset-build-release          | As above, but **BUILD_TYPE** is set to **release**.
| preset-gc-project-env         | Provide environment variable with Gcloud project name
| preset-gc-compute-envs        | Provide environment variables with the Gcloud compute zone and the Gcloud compute region
| preset-sa-vm-kyma-integration | Injects credentials for Service Account for running integration tests on VM
| preset-sa-gke-kyma-integration| Injects credentials for Service Account for running integration tests on GKE cluster

### Check your configuration locally
Use `development/check.sh` script. 
#TODO adjust this section after merging #87
 
### Review and merge your PR on test-infra
After merging, job configuration is automatically applied on a Prow production cluster 
and comment is added to the PR:
![msg](./assets/msg-updated-config.png).
This is done by `config_updater` configured in `prow/plugins.yaml` file.

 
### Create or adjust the `Makefile` for your component.
Both of the buildpacks require a `Makefile` defined in your component directory.   

> The `Makefile` has to define 3 rules:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Makefile` has to define 3 targets:
```

new changes were added to a PR. To test your changes, create a new PR for your component. 
If you want to trigger your job again, add a comment on PR for your component:
- `/test all` - to run all tests
- `/restest` - to run again only failed tests 
- `/test {your test name}`, for example `/test prow/kyma/components/binding-usage-controller` to run only a specific test
Then your job should appear on `http://status.build.kyma-project.io/`.

### Define postsubmit job 
The postsubmit job is almost the same as the already defined presubmit job for the `master`, except for the differences in:
- Labels, since you use `preset-build-master` instead of `preset-build-pr`.
To reduce boilerplate code and code repetition, use YAML features, such as extending objects.
See example:
```yaml
job_template: &job_template
  optional: true 
  skip_report: true
  decorate: true 
  path_alias: github.com/kyma-project/kyma
  extra_refs: 
  - org: kyma-project
    repo: test-infra
    base_ref: master
    path_alias: github.com/kyma-project/test-infra
  spec:
    containers:
    - image: eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/prow/buildpack-golang:0.0.1 
      securityContext:
        privileged: true
      command:

> 

Reviewer 2: Remove this new line

      - "/home/prow/go/src/github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/prow/scripts/pipeline.sh" 
      env:
      - name: SOURCES_DIR
        value: "/home/prow/go/src/github.com/kyma-project/kyma/components/binding-usage-controller"

job_labels_template: &job_labels_template
  preset-dind-enabled: "true"
  preset-sa-gcr-push: "true"
  preset-docker-push-repository: "true"

presubmits: # runs on PRs
  kyma-project/kyma:
  - name: &name prow/kyma/components/binding-usage-controller
    context: *name 
    branches:
    - master

>     run_if_changed: "components/binding-usage-controller/"  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    run_if_changed: "^components/binding-usage-controller/"  
```

    - image: eu.gcr.io/kyma-project/prow/test-infra/buildpack-golang:v20181119-afd3fbd
      securityContext:
        privileged: true
      command:
      - "/home/prow/go/src/github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/prow/scripts/pipeline.sh"
      env:
      - name: SOURCES_DIR
        value: "/home/prow/go/src/github.com/kyma-project/kyma/components/binding-usage-controller"

job_labels_template: &job_labels_template
  preset-dind-enabled: "true"
  preset-sa-gcr-push: "true"
  preset-docker-push-repository: "true"

presubmits: # runs on PRs
  kyma-project/kyma:
  - name: prow/kyma/components/binding-usage-controller
    run_if_changed: "^components/binding-usage-controller/"
    branches:
      - master
    <<: *job_template
    labels:
      <<: *job_labels_template
      preset-build-pr: "true"

postsubmits:
  kyma-project/kyma:
    - name: prow/kyma/components/binding-usage-controller
      branches:
        - master
      <<: *job_template
      labels:
        <<: *job_labels_template
        preset-build-master: "true"

```

To check if your configuration is correct, write a Go test. See the `development/tools/jobs/binding_usage_controller_test.go` file for reference.

> Your new test should be placed in `development/tools/jobs` to be executed by the presubmit job `prow/test-infra/test-jobs-yaml-definitions`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Place your new test under `development/tools/jobs` for the `prow/test-infra/test-jobs-yaml-definitions` presubmit job to execute it.
```

> In case you have access to the Prow cluster, there is an option to test prowjob on it. For a details, see [official documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/prow/build_test_update.md#how-to-test-a-prowjob)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have access to the Prow cluster, there is an option to test a Prow job on it. For details, see the [official documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/prow/build_test_update.md#how-to-test-a-prowjob)
```
